# Assignment 2 - FCB 2026
### Deadline: 23/01/2026 - 23:59

## Submission procedure

This assignment has to be submitted using GitHub Classroom. This
means that you should have cloned the GitHub repo of this assignment from
the organization account for FCB in the academic year 2025-26 at
[https://github.com/FCB-2026](https://github.com/FCB-2026) by
using the assignment link provided at the FCB Moodle site.

Once you have cloned the GitHub repo which has `assignment-2` and your
GitHub username as repo name, then you can work on it in your local disk
and _push_ your changes whenever you like, but make sure that you have pushed
the last version of your assignment before the deadline. There is no
_submit_ button or any other specific submission procedure or action than
just pushing your changes to your GitHub assignment repo. When correcting the
assignment, the latest version available will be retrieved. If that latest
version available is posterior to the deadline, then the mark of the
assignment will have a penalty.

To complete your submission (see rubric below) please **agree to the following
academic integrity statement** by editing this README file and placing the
letter `X` between the squared brackets preceding the statement:

- [] The work here submitted has been entirely developed by myself and is the
  result of my own work.

## Description

The goal of this assignment is to **create a shell script, called
`ari_incidence.sh`, that extracts a specific subset of data described below
from the file `analyzed_samples.csv`**, which contains epidemiological
information on acute respiratory infections (ARI) from the infection
surveillance system in Catalonia ([SIVIC](https://sivic.salut,gencat.cat).

This shell script should be created in such a way that it can be run
in the Unix shell and its output redirected to a file with the name
`incidence_bcn.csv`, as follows:

```
$ sh ari_incidence.sh > incidence_bcn.csv
```
The resulting file `incidence_bcn.csv` should contain the subset of data from
the file `analyzed_samples.csv` storing information about the incidence of ARI
in women between 70 and 74 years of age, living in the city of Barcelona during
the year 2024, by epidemiological week in ascending order.

Your assignment repo should have the following four files:

  1. This `README.md` file, already present in the repo.
  2. The data file `analyzed_samples.csv`, already present in the repo.
  3. The shell script `ari_incidence.sh`.
  4. The results file `incidence_bcn.csv`.

The results file `incidence_bcn.csv`, generated by the script `ari_incidence.sh`
should have the following characteristics:

  1. It should be a CSV file using a comma (`,`) as column separator.
  2. The first line should contain all column headers from the original file
     `analyzed_samples.csv`, except for the columns `codi_regio`, `codi_ambit`,
      `nom_ambit`, which should not be included.
  3. The second and following lines should contain a subset of the data
     from the original file `analyzed_samples.csv` storing information about
     the incidence of ARI in women between 70 and 74 years of age, living in
     the city of Barcelona during the year 2024, by epidemiological week in
     ascending order, excluding the columns `codi_regio`, `codi_ambit` and
     `nom_ambit`.

     For instance, the first line after the header line should be this one:
     ```
     1,2024,01/01/2024,07/01/2024,Barcelona Ciutat,Dona,70 a 74,3,1,0
     ```

## Evaluation rubric

The rubric to evaluate this assignment consists of the following items:

  * Did you properly agree to the academic integrity statement?
  * Does the assignment contain the four required files?
  * Does the results file `incidence_bcn.csv` contain the expected data
    as described above and has been uploaded to the GitHub repo through
    a `git push` command?
  * Does the Unix shell command
     ```
     $ sh ari_incidence.sh > incidence_bcn.csv
     ```
    runs without errors and produces the expected result?
  * Does this repo passes all autograding tests?

